---
aip:
  id: 9100
  state: approved
  created: 2020-07-01
  permalink: /9100
redirect_from:
  - /9100
---

# Corporates AIP #1
The first Corporates specific AIP


Corp - REST API Design Standards

> **Conventions on page 3**

-   **Naming conventions on page 3**

> **NULL values on page 3**

-   **Date and Time conventions on page**

> **4**

-   **Language, Country, Currency on page**

> **5**

-   **Scopes on page 5**

> **HTTP Methods on page 5**
>
> **GET on page 5**

-   **Collection on page 5**

-   **Single item on page 6**

> **POST on page 6**

-   **On Resource Creation on page 6**

-   **No Persistent Resource Created on page 7**

> **PUT on page 7**

-   **On Resource Creation (Acting similar to a POST) on page 7**

-   **On Resource Update (Acting similar to a PATCH) on page 7**

-   **PATCH on page 8**

-   **Bulk Operations on page 8**

> **Features on page 8**

-   **Filtering on page 9**

-   **Sorting on page 10**

-   **Pagination on page 10**

> **Advanced filtering on page 10**

-   **Other options on page 11**

> **Long running operations on page 11**

-   **Client requests for a resource on page**

> **11**
>
> **Response use cases: on page 12**

-   **Case 1: The response is available synchronous. on page 12**

-   **Case 2: The service knows the time it takes to complete the
    operation on page 12**

-   **Case 3: The service does NOT know the time it takes to complete
    the operation on page 12**

-   **Uploading a file on page 13**

-   **TODO on page 13**

**Conventions**

Naming conventions
==================

-   No abbreviations, any name should follow some industry standard
    (don\'t reinvent the wheel), be meaningful, purposeful and
    deliberate.

-   No generic names accepted; examples: certificates, administration,
    etc. Typically generic names can be qualified.

-   **spinal case** naming convention to be followed when more than one
    word is used in a *path segment*.

-   *URLs and path segments* are **all lowercase**.

> *JSON return object*: **camelCase** is preferred. No established
> industry standard exists, but many popular Internet companies prefer
> camelCase. It\'s essential to establish a consistent look and feel
> such that JSON looks as if it came from the same hand. • If client
> developer base is Python dominant: snake_case

-   if client developer base is JavaScript dominant: camelCase

-   Property names must be an ASCII subset: Property names are
    restricted to ASCII encoded strings. The first character must be a
    letter or a dollar sign, and subsequent characters can be a letter,
    a dollar sign, or a number.

-   *Array names* should be **pluralized**: To indicate they contain
    multiple values prefer to pluralize array names. This implies that
    object names should in turn be singular.

-   Use Consistent Property Values

**NULL values**

-   Boolean property values must not be null: Schema based JSON
    properties that are by design booleans must not be presented as
    nulls. A boolean is essentially a closed enumeration of two values,
    true and false. If the content has a meaningful null value, strongly
    prefer to replace the boolean with enumeration of named values or
    statuses - for example

> accepted_terms_and_conditions with true or false can be replaced with
> terms_and_conditions with values yes, no and unknown.

-   Null values should have their fields removed: Swagger/OpenAPI, which
    is in common use, doesn\'t support null field values (it does allow
    omitting that field completely if it is not marked as required).
    However that doesn\'t prevent clients and servers sending and
    receiving those fields with null values. Also, in some cases null
    may be a meaningful value - for example, JSON Merge Patch [RFC
    7382](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7386)) using null to indicate
    property deletion.

> Non-existance values should be null: A value that is required within
> the JSON structure should be filled in with *null*.
>
> Example:

-   {\"someField\" : null } or

-   {\"field1\": \"abc\", \"field2\" : null} // where field2 is
    required.

-   Also see Null values should have their fields removed.

-   Empty array values should not be null: Empty array values can
    unambiguously be represented as the the empty list, \[\].

-   Enumerations should be represented as Strings: Strings are a
    reasonable target for values that are by design enumerations.

Date and Time conventions
=========================

> Date property values should conform to RFC 3399 Use the date and time
> formats defined by [RFC
> 3339](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#section-5.6):

-   for \"date\" use strings matching date-fullyear \"-\" date-month
    > \"-\" date-mday, for example: 2015-05-28

-   for \"date-time\" use strings matching full-date \"T\" full-time,
    > for

> example 2015-05-28T14:07:17Z

-   Note that the [OpenAPI
    > format](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/2.0.md#data-types)
    > \"date-time\" corresponds to \"date-time\" in the RFC) and
    > 2015-05-28 for a date (note that the OpenAPI format \"date\"
    > corresponds to \"full-date\" in the RFC). Both are specific
    > profiles, a subset of the international standard [ISO
    > 8601](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601).

-   A zone offset may be used (both, in request and responses) \-- this
    > is simply defined by the standards. However, we encourage
    > restricting dates to UTC and without offsets. For example
    > 2015-05-28T14:07:17Z rather than 2015-05-28T14:07:17+00:00. From
    > experience we have learned that zone offsets are not easy to
    > understand and often not correctly handled. Note also that zone
    > offsets are different from local times that might be including
    > daylight saving time. Localization of dates should be done by the
    > services that provide user interfaces, if required.

-   When it comes to storage, all dates should be consistently stored in
    > UTC without a zone offset. Localization should be done locally by
    > the services that provide user interfaces, if required.

-   Sometimes it can seem data is naturally represented using numerical
    > timestamps, but this can introduce interpretation issues with
    > precision - for example whether to represent a timestamp as
    > 1460062925, 1460062925000 or 1460062925.000. Date strings, though
    > more verbose and requiring more effort to parse, avoid this
    > ambiguity.

-   Time durations and intervals should conform to ISO 8601: Schema
    > based JSON properties that are by design durations and intervals
    > could be strings formatted as recommended by ISO 8601 ([Appendix A
    > of RFC 3399 contains a
    > grammar](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#appendix-A) for
    > durations).

Language, Country, Currency
===========================

> Standards should be used for Language, Country and Currency

-   ISO 3166-1-alpha2 country: (It\'s \"GB\", not \"UK\")

-   ISO 639-1 language codeISO 4217 currency codes: BCP-47 (based on ISO
    > 639-1) for language variants

**Scopes**

What we have for APIs: base path - API Product - scope root

-   Base path is spinal-cased, e.g. /income-tax, /trust-tax

-   Scope is not spinal-cased, e.g. incometax, trusttax

> Mapping base path to scope
>
> If the base path has more than one segment, the scope will have a dot

-   e.g. /indirect-tax/determination maps to indirecttax.determination
    > while /indirect-taxdetermination maps to indirecttaxdetermination

-   The name of the base path must match with the scope root

> JSON return object: camelCase is preferred

-   If client developer base is Python dominant: snake_case

-   if client developer base is JavaScript dominant: camelCase

Scopes hierarchy not implemented

Root - matches the product, base path

Children can be configured to point at different segments:
/income-tax/{version}/e-files can have incometax.efiles.(action)
(action): read, write, all, readonly

ONESOURCE work-arounds mapping in APIGEE from scope to SSO Product ID

**HTTP Methods**

GET
===

Collection
----------

**/base-url/collection-name**

HTTP 200 (OK)

### Body

{ \"\_links\": {}, \"\_meta\": {}, \"items\": \[ { \"\_links\": {},
\"\_meta\": {}, \"field_1\": value_1, \..... \"fieldN\":

value_n }, \..... \..... \..... { \"\_links\": {}, \"\_meta\": {},
\"field1\":

value_1, \..... \"fieldN\": value_n } \]} **Meta Object**

The meta object, under the field \"\_meta\", exists to return data that
is consistent about the entire list of queried results. This can
include:

-   Pagination Info

-   The field that the items returned are sorted by

-   The criteria the items are filtered by

If not, relevant information exists, the field can be omitted form the
object

Single item
-----------

### /base-url//collection-name/{item-id}

If the item\'s ID is composite, or belongs in an hierarchal
relationship, it may follow the modified path **/base-url/
collection-name1/{item-id-part1}/collection-name2/{item-id-part2}**

HTTP 200 (OK)

### Body

{ \"\_links\": {}, \"\_meta\": {}, \"field1\": value_1, \..... \.....
\"fieldN\":

value_n}

HTTP 404 (Not Found)

If the requested resource is missing [Standard Error
Body](https://thehub.thomsonreuters.com/#id-1.APIStandards-StandardErrorBody)

POST
====

**/base-url/collection-name**

On Resource Creation
--------------------

HTTP 201 (Created)

### Headers

Location header in response must contain the path to the created
resource

Absolute path is preferred to relative path

For example:
**<https://www.api.com/base-url/collection-name/>{new-item-id}**

### Body

Must contain any data created by the POST (e.g. an ID)

May contain additional data about the created resource, consider
returning what might be given for GET for this particular resource HTTP
409 (Conflict)

If the requested resource is a duplicate of a currently persisted
resource

[Standard Error
Body](https://thehub.thomsonreuters.com/#id-1.APIStandards-StandardErrorBody)

HTTP 400 (Bad Request)

If the requested resource has invalid values in the body or query
parameters

[Standard Error
Body](https://thehub.thomsonreuters.com/#id-1.APIStandards-StandardErrorBody)

No Persistent Resource Created
------------------------------

HTTP 200 (OK)

**Body**

• Must contain all relevant data in body as there is no persistent
resource

### Example Use Case

> • A POST to a predictive modelling API to generate predictions for
> given input data would return entire information without persisting
> any resource to the database

HTTP 400 (Bad Request)

If the requested resource has invalid values in the body or query
parameters

[Standard Error
Body](https://thehub.thomsonreuters.com/#id-1.APIStandards-StandardErrorBody)

PUT
===

**/base-url/collection-name/{item-id}**

On Resource Creation (Acting similar to a POST)
-----------------------------------------------

HTTP 201 (Created)

### Headers

Location header in response must contain the path to the created
resource

Absolute path is preferred to relative path

For example
**<https://www.api.com/base-url/collection-name/>{new-item-id}**

### Body

Must contain any data created by the PUT (e.g. an ID)

May contain additional data about the created resource, consider
returning what might be given for GET for this particular resource

HTTP 400 (Bad Request)

If the requested resource has invalid values in the body or query
parameters

[Standard Error
Body](https://thehub.thomsonreuters.com/#id-1.APIStandards-StandardErrorBody)

On Resource Update (Acting similar to a PATCH)
----------------------------------------------

HTTP 200 (OK)

### Body

May contain any minimal data about the updated resource, consider
returning what might be given for GET for this particular resource HTTP
400 (Bad Request)

If the requested resource has invalid values in the body or query
parameters

[Standard Error
Body](https://thehub.thomsonreuters.com/#id-1.APIStandards-StandardErrorBody)

PATCH
=====

**URL:**

/base-url/collection-name/{collection-item-id}

**Request:**

JSON body containing only the fields being updated **Successful
Response:**

*HTTP Status Code:* 204 (No Content)

*Response Body:* none **Error:**

*HTTP Status Codes:*

• 400 - Bad request (missing/invalid parameters and/or fields)

*Body:* Standard Error Body

**Bulk Operations**

For processing a series of requests with the same HTTP method (e.g.
POST, PATCH):

**URL:**

/bulk/rest_of_path/...

**Request:**

\[Resource\]

**Response:**

*HTTP Status Code:* 207
([Multistatus](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4918#section-13))
*Response Body:*

{

\"\_links\": {

},

\"\_meta\": {

},

\"Items\": \[{

\"success\": boolean,

\"error\": ErrorObject (if needed),

\"object\": RequestedObject (containing id/code of particular object)

}\] }

**Features**

If you provide query support for searching, sorting, filtering, and
paginating, you must stick to the following naming conventions:

**filter** - to support filtering **sort** \-- comma-separated list of
fields to define the sort order. To indicate sorting direction, fields
may be prefixed with + (ascending) or - (descending), e.g.
/sales-orders?sort=+id **fields** \-- to retrieve only a subset of
fields of a resource. Same Zalando convention in case there is hierarchy
(especially via embed) **embed** \-- to expand or embedded sub-entities
(ie.: inside of an article entity, expand silhouette code into the
silhouette object). Implementing embed correctly is difficult, so do it
with care. **offset** (skip) \-- numeric offset of the first element on
a page. See Pagination section below. **cursor** \-- an opaque pointer
to a page, never to be inspected/constructed by clients. It usually
(encrypted) encodes the identifier of the first or last page element,
the pagination direction, and the applied query filters to recreate the
collection. See Pagination section below.

**limit** (top) \-- client suggested limit to restrict the number of
entries on a page. See Pagination section below.

**Read Collection (GET)**

Filtering
=========

Description
-----------

Large Collections should have a filtering option.

This will be given as a url encoded string for the query parameter,
\'filter\'.

The filter format should follow the Microsoft guidelines:
[https://github.com/microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/vNext/
Guidelines.md\#97-filtering](https://github.com/microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/vNext/Guidelines.md#97-filtering)

The base filter string would follow the format: {{fieldName}}
{{operand}} \'{{fieldValue}}\'

These filters should also support the logical operators and/or/not and
parentheses bracketing to give more complex filter queries.

Example Requests Example Complex Filter Request
-----------------------------------------------

filter=(account_code eq \'123\' or account_code eq \'124\') and
account_name eq \'tax benefits\' **Example Base Filter Request**
filter=account_code eq \'123\'

Minimal Filter Operations Supported
-----------------------------------

  **Filter Operation**       **Abbreviation for Query**
  -------------------------- ----------------------------
  Equals                     eq
  Not equals                 ne
  Greater than               gt
  Less than                  lt
  Greater than or equal to   ge
  Less than or equal to      le

Optional Filter Operations To Support
-------------------------------------

This list should be grown to define new operations as needed to keep
consistent across platforms

  **Filter Operation**   **Abbreviation for Query**
  ---------------------- ----------------------------
  Begins with            bw
  Ends with              ew
  Contains               like

> Filtering collection items either via GET on the collection endpoint
> with the filter query string must follow the same structure when used
> in Advanced filtering in a POST /search or /query endpoint.

Sorting
=======

Description
-----------

Large Collections should have a sorting option.

This will be given in the query parameter, \'sort\'. The value will be a
comma separated list of fields to sort in order of precedence.

Optionally +/- can be prepended to the field name to indicate sort
direction. + for ascending, - for descending

Example Request
---------------

sort=account_code (with default sorting for account_code or if there is
a single way to sort by accounting code) or
sort=-account_code,+account_name (account_code descending, account_name
ascending)

Pagination
==========

Description
-----------

Large Collections should support client-side pagination.

This will be given in the query parameters, limit and offset.

Limit is the page size, or the number of entities returned from the
collection, and offset is start index.

**Example Request** limit=5&offset=2

This would give items 3-7 of the collection.

Advanced filtering
==================

The preferred way to filter items in a collection is by using the
pre-defined filtering features as part of the query string in a GET for
the items collection:

GET /collection-items?filter=

There are cases where the API service does not model well enough with
nouns and collections or when the actual number of filters and
conditions available is way to big and too complex.

In this cases a POST /search (or /query) can be used. It is not in the
intention of the guidelines to make this the preferred way, it is
provided here, so that when needed there is a clear naming convention on
how to use the collection endpoint.

Additionally, to make the filters more user friendly an additional
endpoint can be used: /filters and allow the user to discover the filter
keys and their potential values.

Other options
-------------

Other teams are pursuing ODATA APIs - supported by this guideline but
outside the scope of this document but very well defined buy Microsoft
at [www.odata.org.](http://www.odata.org/)

GraphQL is another very good alternative, growing both in popularity and
maturity.

Error Handling

### Standard Error Body

This body should be the base structure of the response given by any
error along with the endpoint specific status code. Additional fields
can be included, but there must be the root error object with fields
\'code\', and \'message\'.

{ \"error\": { \"code\": \"ERROR_ENUM\", \"message\": \"Human readable
message that describes error in detail\" }} Error Enum Values

### Current Error Enum Values

As different error value needs arise for unique endpoints, this list
should be grown with new values if the current set is not sufficient to
describe the issue.

-   ENTITY_NOT_FOUND // To be used for resource that fail to be found
    (404 Not Found)

-   DB_VALIDATION_ERROR // To be used for conflicting input data (409
    Conflict)

-   BAD_ARGUMENT // To be used for invalid input in query parameters or
    request body (400 Bad Request)

**Long running operations**

Client requests for a resource
------------------------------

The service knows what the response time will be and will implement one
or all of these patterns.

Request scenarios:

-   POST /{base-url-path}/{version}/resource and a BODY

-   GET /{base-url-path}/{version}/resource

The three use cases are determined at run-time by the service. The
client could expect any of the below three possibilities as a valid
response.

**Response use cases:**

**Case 1: The response is available synchronous.**

The service will return in a request response paradigm.

### Case 2: The service knows the time it takes to complete the operation

Returns 202 specifying Location header with the response URL:
/{base-url}/{version}/operations (it can be totally decoupled from the
initial request) and a Retry-After to inform the client when the result
is available (in seconds relative time)

#### 202 Case 2

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  HTTP/1.1 202 AcceptedRetry-After: 30 (in seconds) // requiredLocation: https:// api.onesourcetax.com/base-url/v1/operations/{operation-id} // the unique operation-id
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The client waits for Retry-After then calls response URL:
/{base-url}/operations/{operation-id}. If the API is invoked before the
Retry-After server returns: 404 not found (open for debate)

Note: (Dan to clean up) /resource-name/id in location

If results are not available after the Retry-After on the response the
service can follow the Case 3 - time not known paradigm or return an
error.

+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| > HTTP/1.1 200                                       | -03.0024Z\", |
| >                                                    |              |
| > OK{ \"createdDateTime\":                           |              |
| > \"2015-06-19T12-01-03.45Z\",                       |              |
| > \"lastActionDateTime\": \"2015-06-19T12-06         |              |
+======================================================+==============+
| > [api.com/{ba                                       |              |
| se-url}/v1/resource-name\"](https://api.edp.thomsonr |              |
| euters.com/analytics/service-name/v1/resource-name)} |              |
+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+

### Case 3: The service does NOT know the time it takes to complete the operation

Returns 202 specifying Location a per service queue, for example:
/operations/analytics/service-name/v1/

{operation-id} (operation-id is a unique identifier)

#### 202 Case 3

HTTP/1.1 202 AcceptedLocation:
https://api.onesourcetax.com/{base-url}/{version}/operations/{operation-id}
// the unique operation-id

The client pulls the location provided and receives a **generic** (with
status) JSON object.

Client issues: GET /{base-url}/{version}/operations/{operation-id}

Possible statuses: \"Not started\" \"Running\" \"Completed\" (terminal
state) \"Failed\" (terminal state)

Response is not ready:

#### Not ready

HTTP/1.1 200 OKOptional (not required but gives an indication to the
client when to try again): Retry-After: 30

(in seconds){ \"createdDateTime\": \"2015-06-19T12-01-03.4Z\",
\"status\": \"running\"} Response is ready:

When \"successful\" the JSON object must contain the actual URL
response: /analytics/service-name/v1/result. **Response is ready**

Response failed:

#### Response failed

The service-name provider owns two base paths: /base-url/{version} and
/base-url/{version}/operations/.

Uploading a file
----------------

**Reference**

-   PascalUrlsAreLikeThis

+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| > HTTP/1.1 200                                       | -03.0024Z\", |
| >                                                    |              |
| > OK{ \"createdDateTime\":                           |              |
| > \"2015-06-19T12-01-03.45Z\",                       |              |
| > \"lastActionDateTime\": \"2015-06-19T12-06         |              |
+======================================================+==============+
|                                                      |              |
+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+

-   camelCaseIsLikeThis

-   snake_case_is_like_this

-   kebab-urls-have-a-stick-through-them

-   **lowercaseurlsarejustweird**

**TODO**

-   Describe \_links and \_meta under the GET method

-   Check if the Standard error body is correct

## Changelog

- **2020-07-02**: Added Corporates Hub content
- **2020-07-01**: Initial release
